---
layout: post
title: 'Which Is Better: Working as an Individual Agent or Working on a Team?'
date: 2018-12-11 22:42:09
tags:
  - Agent Training
  - Team Realtors
excerpt: >-
  What is the difference between working as a solo agent and joining a team, and
  which is the better option for those getting started in our industry? Today
  I’d like to shed some light on this common question.
enclosure: >-
  https://s3.amazonaws.com/vyralmarketing/Aimee+Freeman/Aimee+Freeman+%2526+Co.+%257C+Should+I+Join+a+Team%253F.mp4
pullquote: Our team is always looking for incredible new agents to join us.
enclosure_type: video/mp4
enclosure_time:
use_youtube_image: true
youtube_alternate_image:
youtube_code: eCN5JPjXbRQ
---

{% include youtube.html %}

Many people who are first getting started in real estate wonder whether it’s better to work as an individual agent or to join a team. If you find yourself pondering this question, allow me to shed some light on the subject for you today.

I often see this exact question posed in real estate groups on Facebook. What irks me about this is not the question being asked, but the fact that **agents responding to it will often do so without asking the original poster a single question in return.** Why does this bother me? Well, the truth is that there’s no one-size-fits-all answer to this question. The choice between becoming an individual agent or working with a team will depend largely on who you are as a person and what professional goals you have.&nbsp;

When you first get your license, it’s common to feel a little lost. After all, you don’t have any experience under your belt. All you know are a few rules and laws pertaining to the industry. **New agents need training, leads, and proper mentorship to really get their feet on the ground.**&nbsp;

It’s for this reason that I believe the majority of brand-new agents should work on teams. However, this won’t always be the case. As I mentioned earlier, it is a highly personal decision.&nbsp;

The reason working with a team is beneficial in most cases, though, is that it allows new agents to leverage the knowledge of more experienced professionals as they get started into their own career. **Having professional guidance is extremely valuable for Realtors who are just getting started, and a team environment is one of the best ways to facilitate this.**&nbsp;

{% include pullquote.html %}

New agents working on their own may be able to sell six or eight homes a year by reaching out to people they know, but if you have bigger aspirations, then you’re going to need to work for your leads and expand your horizons to people you haven’t met yet. This will mean door knocking, cold calling, prospecting, and doing whatever else it takes to drum up business. You could buy leads instead, but most new agents don’t have the money for this.&nbsp;

On my team, specifically, 95% of our transactions are generated by the team, with only 5% of sales coming from outside business brought in by one of our agents. Not all teams are created equal though. Even if you make the decision to join a team, use the interview process to your advantage in order to find the perfect fit for you.&nbsp;

I would also recommend against letting commission splits scare you away. These splits are in place to compensate for the resources and opportunities a team provides. If you don’t have the resources needed to make a sale to begin with, the fact that you’d get to retain the entirety of your commission doesn’t mean anything. **Retaining 100% of the commission for one deal, for example, is still a lot less than taking 50% of the commission for dozens of deals.&nbsp;**

I worked as an individual agent for a long time, myself. And, in my experience, being a successful individual agent may have paid off for me eventually, but it did mean that I lost out on a lot of time with my family. **It’s next to impossible to step away from your business as an individual agent, given that there is no one there to cover things for you while you do.** An agent on our team, meanwhile, recently took a two-week vacation, during which we covered everything for her so she wouldn’t have to worry about work while she was enjoying her time off.&nbsp;

With all of this in mind, I’d like to extend an offer to you. Let’s have a conversation about your future. Our team is always looking for incredible new agents to join us.

If you have any other questions or would like more information, feel free to give me a call or send me an email. I look forward to hearing from you soon.